{\rtf1\ansi\deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0 Times New Roman;}}\f0\fs24 ## Volume II, Number 9\par \par **Official Publication of the United States Chess Federation**\par \par **Monday, January 5, 1948**\par \par **R. Byrne Wins Intercollegiate! Hot Contest Marks Playing in Second Collegiate Event**\par \par Yale University's Robert Byrne, budding New York minor master, won the United States Intercollegiate Individual Chess Championship, outdistancing a field of 44 players from 21 colleges at Columbia University, New York.  December 26-30. Byrne added insult to injury by taking the rapid transit championship with a perfect 9-0 in the finals.\par \par The main event, sponsored by the United States Chess Federation, produced many thrills and presented several new faces to the ranks of top-flight young players.  The first time in collegiate history, New York schools were unable to get above fifth in the final standings, while two unknowns downed favorites to carry off second and third places.\par \par **Runner-up spot went to Andrew Acrivos, native Greek now a student at Syracuse University. The third position was awarded Chester T. Fell, William & Mary College, while Sol Gartenhaus, University of Pennsylvania player and Pennsylvania Junior Chess runner-up, took fourth honors, as the two latter men came from far in the rear to place high in the finals.**\par \par The top four men were tied with a game score of 5 1/2-1/2, but the Sonneborn-Bergel tie-breaking method gave 25 points to Byrne, 22 to Acrivos. Full details in next issue.\par \par **Anderson Wins Toronto City Championship**\par \par Frank H. Anderson retained his title as Toronto (Can.) Champion by defeating E. T. Jewitt in the last round adjourned game for a final score of 8-1. The youthful champion's only loss was to S. A. Crompton who finished second with a score of 7-2. \par \par **Toronto** \par F. H. Anderson 8-1\par S. A Crompton 7-2\par Y. A. Hodgetts 6-3\par O. A. Crompton 7-2\par S. Gill 5-4\par \par **Puerto Rico Wins From St. Thomas**\par \par On December 8, Puerto Rico won a team match from St. Thomas of the Virgin Islands by the score of 7-1. In the course of the festivities USCF Director Hector Vissepo of Puerto Rico convincingly expounded on the benefits of USCF membership that Secretary Julius Edwards of the St. Thomas Club immediately forwarded the application for a USCF club charter.\par \par **Puerto Rico**\par Orlando Pla 2\par J. Ramos 2\par Carlos Vega 2\par Fernando Holguin 1\par \par **St. Thomas**\par J. F. Edwards 0\par F. A. Allick 0\par A. Abrahamsen 0\par Waldemar Hill 1\par \par **B. Czalkowski Gives 2000 Hours to Veteran**\par \par Setting an example to be envied and emulated, Bruno Czalkowski, President of the Chicago City Chess League for many years, has compiled a record of 2000 hours spent in playing and teaching chess to wounded veterans. This remarkable feat becomes more remarkable when it is revealed that Czalkowski compiled this record in the brief span of four years and five months.\par \par A summary of the record is instructive: \par *  Cook County General Hospital (Chicago) 1165\par *  Edward Hines Hospital (Great Lakes) 510\par *  Veterans Hospital (Great Lakes) 125\par *  Vaughan Hospital (Chicago) 130\par *  Hines Hospital (Chicago) 80\par *  Veterans Rehabilitation Hospital (Chicago) 22\par * **Total** 2000\par \par **Sandrin Tries the Blindfold Way in Chess**\par \par Youthful Albert Sandrin of Chicago, Illinois State Champion, is testing out the path toward blindfold mastery of the chessboard now shared by such experts as George Koltanowski and Mendel Najdorf. In a recent tour of Central Illinois, Sandrin performed in two ten board blindfold exhibitions, at Decatur and at Peoria, which received much comment in the local press and even gained an editorial from the more distant Alton Evening Telegram.\par \par At Decatur Sandrin lost one game to R. L. Fletcher and drew with Mrs. Turner Nearing; the score at Peoria is not reported, but Paul Adams of Chicago who managed the tour states that Sandrin has only lost two out of the last twenty-one blindfold games. \par \par **CP Chess League in Central Penn.**\par \par Six central Pennsylvania chess clubs have organized the CP Chess League to play a double-round, home and home match series, with Russell Miller of Elizabethtown as chairman of the League. The League includes Harrisburg, Lancaster, York, Elizabethtown and the Cumberland Valley group (consisting of Chambersburg, Waynesboro, Shippensburg and Carlisle). The scope of the League covers 80 miles at the widest point so that radio matches may be attempted on the most distant games.\par \par **Qualify in Puerto Rican Championship**\par \par Preliminary sectional tournaments have qualified thirteen players to meet with Puerto Rican Champion Rafael Cintron Ilamos in the first Open Championship Tournament to be held in Puerto Rico. Play in the championship event will begin in January with the following list of qualified contestants for the final honors:\par \par *  **Defending Champion Rafael Cintron Ramos**\par *  **Director Hector Vissepo**\par *  **Miguel Colon**\par *  **Arturo Colon**\par *  **Francisco Benitez**\par *  **Francisco Prieto, all of San Juan**\par *  **Humberto Ortiz**\par *  **Luis Rojas**\par *  **Orlando Pia**\par *  **L. Berrocal, all of Santurce**\par *  **Jenaro Maldonado and Charlie Colon of Ponce**\par *  **Manuel P. Cadilla of Arecibo**\par *  **Pedro Negroni of Guayama**\par \par Several of these players are well known in the U.S. chess circles, for Miguel Colon tied for second with A. C. Margolis in the Yankton Tournament in 1946, while Rafael Cintron placed sixth ahead of L. Marquez of Colombia and Averill Powers of Milwaukee. At the Open Tournament at Corpus Christi in 1947 Arturo Colon placed fourteenth ahead of such well-known players as Steinmeyer, Evans, and Dr. Edward Lasker; while Hector Vissepo in the thirty-seventh spot outdistanced such players as W. M. Byland and Paul Poschel. \par \par In addition, Miguel and Arturo Colon, Rafael Cintron, Francisco Benitez, and Luis Rojas played in the two-round radio match with Chicago in 1947 in which the Puerto Rican team scored a victory in the first round and lost the second by a close score against a Chicago team of Albert Sandrin, Paul Poschel, A. C. Don Thompson, S. Cohen and Earl Davidson.\par \par **Play Begins in 2nd Round in CCLA "Grand National"**\par \par A total of 49 first-round section-winners have begun play in the second round of the United States Correspondence Chess Championship, the 14th Grand National, according to Mr. James W. Jenkins, Newark, New York, Tournament Director of the Correspondence Chess League of America, who annually conduct this USCF-endorsed national championship. After hurdling more than 250 opponents in the first round, which began in September 1946, the following will meet in seven sections for the right to advance into the Finals sometime in early 1949. The bracketed figures after each name indicate the section number and record in the first round.\par \par **California State:**\par \par * Joseph Kirkland, Wash. (1: 7-1/2)\par * R. W. Banner, Orange, Calif. (2: 6-1/2, one to go)\par * H. M. Gmney, Los Angeles, Calif. (3: 7-1)\par * Alan G. Pearsall, Chula Vista, Calif (4: 6-1, 1 to go, and 6: 7-1)\par * Burrell B. Wisegarver, S. Pasadena, Calif. (5: 6-1/2)\par * Dr. H. O. Ellis, Chico, Calif. (7: 7-1/2)\par * A. Keith, South Gate, Calif. (7: 7-1/2)\par * Robert D. Hayes, Hawthorne, Calif. (8: 6-0)\par \par **States:**\par \par * Dr. Bela Rozsa, Tulsa, Okla. (1: 7-1)\par * W. F. (please turn to Page 3, col. 5)\par \par **NOTICE**\par \par I am happy to announce to the readers of CHESS LIFE that arrangements have been made to retain the services of Montgomery Major as editor. Mr. Major has made an outstanding record in establishing a Federation Official Publication, and it is a matter of gratification that he will continue the work which he has so well begun.\par \par A. Wagner, Jr.\par President, United States Chess Federation\par \par **USCF Appoints Area Committees for U.S. Prelims.**\par \par Following the provisions of the Wayne Committee report, USCF President Elbert A. Wagner, Jr., has announced the appointment of the following Area Committees to arrange details of the seven preliminary tournaments to qualify entrants into the 1948 U.S. Championship Tournament. Details of each tournament will be announced in CHESS LIFE as soon as available, but interested players are advised to contact their own Area Committee as soon as possible.\par \par As reported in CHESS LIFE on December 6, sixteen players will be qualified from these seven areas preliminary tournaments to compete in the final U.S. Championship Tournament in which only defending Champion S. Reshevsky, Reuben Fine, and the winners of the last two U.S. Open Tournaments will be seeded without preliminary qualification. \par \par **Area 1** For Maine, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont and Massachusetts:\par \par *  Orlando A. Lester, Chairman, 162 Profile Avenue, Portsmouth, N.H.\par *  Walter D. Suesman, 237 Oaklawn Ave., Cranston 9, R.I.\par *  Waldo L. Walters, 99 Beacon St., Reading, Mass.\par *  (To Be Announced Later)\par \par **Area 2** For New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania:\par \par *  Harold M. Phillips, Chairman, 258 Broadway, New York, N.Y.\par *  (Please turn to Page 4, col. 5) \par }