{\rtf1\ansi\deff0 {\fonttbl {\f0 Times New Roman;}}\f0\fs24 ## Chess: A Game for Moralists, Philosophers, and Poets! \par \par By William Rojam\par \par For Chess and Life - both are the same; Temptation, pitfall in each. We win a pawn - then lose the game; A sermon without speech. \par \par Did not Pope Innocent (my authority is Hone's Yearbook, London, 1832) publish a grave Morality on Chess, in which he likened life itself to the conflict on the checkered board? For did he not say: "The world is nearly like a Chess Board, of which the points are alternately white and black, figuring the double state of life and death, grace and sin ... In this chess-game the Evil one says, 'Check!' whenever he insults and strikes one with his dart of sin; and, if he that is struck cannot immediately deliver himself, the arch enemy, resuming the move, lays to him, 'Mate' carrying his soul along with him to that place from which there is no redemption." \par \par And has not Omar Khayyam, Astronomer, philosopher, and poet, sung (my source is Edward FitzGerald): \par \par "Impotent Pieces of the Game He Plays\par Upon this Checker-board of Nights and Days,\par Hither and thither moves, and checks and slays,\par And one by one back in the Closet lays." \par \par But not always has the Church smiled its approval upon Chess, for we know that the sober St. Peter Damian, sometime cardinal bishop of Ostia (circa 1061), thus thundered at a wayward bishop: "Was it right, I say, and consistent with thy duty, to sport away thy evenings amidst the vanity of chess?" \par \par Even John Huss, that embattled reformer, while pondering in his prison cell gave lament to the hours idly wasted in playing chess, so dangerous to the soul because it might arouse a violent passion in the player.\par \par With board crown not your foeman's pate\par In manner quite discourteous;\par It shows a soul in sinful state,\par Alarming most to one John Huss. \par \par ## EDWARD I. TREEND, NEW SECRETARY\par \par Among the changes in the USCF's Executive Offices was the election of Edward I. Treend of Detroit as the new Secretary. Mr. Treend has long been prominent in his state chess circles both as Vice-President and as Secretary of the Michigan State Chess Association and so brings unusual qualifications to the important post of Secretary for the USCF. As one of the official spokesmen of the USCF he will be no stranger to these pages in the days to come, and the USCF is to be congratulated upon the good fortune in obtaining his services. \par \par ## NEW DUTIES CALL PAUL G. GIERS\par \par In leaving the post of Secretary, which he has so ably filled, Paul G. Giers steps into even a more arduous task in the newly created office of Executive Vice-President. Into his hands have been entrusted the delicate matters pertaining to participation in international chess affairs, general supervision over the publication and distribution of chess material, and the program for the development and expansion of the USCF. In all these affairs, he had always had a hand, but hitherto was hampered by the volume of business pouring through the Secretary's office. By a special amendment to the By-Laws, the new office was created to relieve Mr. Giers of the routine and permit him to devote his time and talents exclusively to these important projects for the USCF long-range program. \par \par ## ANNOUNCING \par \par August 10th, 1946\par \par Dear Mr. Major;\par \par The editors and publishers of CHESS REVIEW extend to their sincere good for the launching of the Federation's new publication. The idea of a newspaper to "win-late" contact with the members of the Federation is a good one and deserves to succeed. It should result in increased interest in the federation's promotional activities and tournaments. We hope, too, that your newspaper will aid in swelling the membership roll of the USCF and thereby make it possible for the Federation to do even more than it now being accomplished in organizing local, regional, and national competition among followers of the Royal Game.\par \par Sincerely yours,\par \par KENNETH HARKNESS\par Managing Editor, CHESS REVIEW,\par New York, N. Y.\par \par ## GRAND NATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE CHESS CHAMPION\par \par Entries are pouring in from all over the country for the U.S. Grand National Correspondence Chess Tournament, whose final winner will be recognized by the USCF as the U.S. Correspondence Chess Champion. The tournament opens officially upon October 1st with entrants contesting in preliminary sections of nine players each. In States having five or six such sections, the winners of each section play off a match for the State Championship. States with smaller groups of entrants are grouped with other States and the winners of each section in these groups play off a match for a regional title. Then, winners of State titles or regional titles west of the Mississippi may vie for the All-Western title, while the All-Eastern title is being decided by the winners of State and regional playoffs east of the Mississippi. At last, the climax comes when the All-Eastern winner meets the All-Western winner in a match to decide the U.S. Correspondence Championship. \par \par The Grand National Tournament is almost as old as the Correspondence Chess League of America (a USCF Chapter) which sponsors it. And, unlike other CCLA tournaments, it is open to all the chess-playing public, members and non-members. \par \par ## CENTER GAME\par \par Pittsburgh Open Tournament Championship Finals\par Notes by Erich W. Marcrum\par \par **White** | **Black**\par ------- | --------\par F. Yerhoff | H. Steiner\par \par 1. P-K4 | P-K4\par 2. P-Q4 | PxP\par 3. QxP \par \par The Center Game seldom appears in tournament play since White's Queen is embarrassed for a good place. Black probably has in mind two questions: (1) Can I remember the intricate details of the theoretical refutation? (2) Has my opponent cooked up or looked up some new analysis?\par \par 3. Kt-QB3 | 4. Q-K3 | Kt-B3 \par 5. B-Q2\par \par Black could refute the powerful-looking 5. P-K5 by 6. ... Kt-KKt5; 7. Q-K2 (if 7. Q-K4, P-Q1!), P-Q3!; 8. P-Kn3, KKbKP; 9. P-KB4, Kt-Q5; 10. Q-K4, P-QB4; 11. PxKt, P-Q4; 12. Q-Q3, B-B4; 13. Q-KKt3, KtxP ch. \par \par 5. B-K2 | 6. Kt-QB3 | O-O\par \par Black usually plays 6. ... P-Q4 here before White can prevent it with 7. B-B4. Steiner's move seems no better.\par \par 7. B-B4 | 8. Q-B4 | 9. B-Kt3 | 10. KKt-K2 | Kt-KKt5\par 11. Kt-QS | 12. KtxB ch. | 13. RPxKt | 14. P-KB3 | KKt-K4\par 15. QxP | KtxB | QxKt | P-KB4 | PxP \par 16. Kt-K8 | P-B3\par \par This breaks Capablanca's rule: Place your pawns on the opposite color to that of your Bishop. But the center is of more importance here. \par \par 16. Q-K2 | 17. O-O | 18. B-K3 | 19. Q-Q2 | 20. QR-K1 | P-Q4\par 21. R-K3 | Q-Q3 | B-Q2 | QR-K1 | P-QR3\par \par One cannot accuse Steiner of playing dull chess. But, if White adopts a Missouri attitude, it is not clear how Black can get compensation for his Pawn sacrifice. For instance, if 22. R-xP, P-Q5; 23. Kt-K4, Q-Kt1?; 24. BxP. Or if 23. ... Q-Kt3; 24. BxP. Or if 22. ... Q-Kt1 at once, threatening P-QG and KtxP ch., then 23. Q-Q2. \par \par 21. R-Q1 | 22. B-Kt5\par \par Up to this point, Yerhoff has held his own. Now he weakens somewhat. In such a position, control of the only open file is fundamental. White's idea was probably to swing the Knight to K4 and then to Kt5 or B5. But this Black now prevents. Either 22. R-K2 or 22. B-Q4, KR-K1; 23. Q-B3!, Q-K2; 24. Kt-B5! would be preferable. \par \par 22. Q-K2 | 23. Q-B4 ch. | KR-K1 \par 24. K-R1 | 25. Q-B3 | Q-B1\par \par The illusion of an attack with this move and the next soon fades, and how will this poor Pawn survive? \par \par 26. QR-K1 would make 27. P-B5 | 28. B-B4 | 29. BxR | 30. QR-K1\par 31. RxKt | 32. Q-Kt4 \par \par Kt-Kt5 | R-K4 | R-K6 | KtxB | KtxR\par Q-B3 \par \par White does well to decline the exchange of Queens. In any case, he has three strikes against him: (1) a weak Pawn (2) Black's control of the King's file (3) the advantage of Bishop over Knight on an open board. For example, 32. QxQ, PxQ; 33. Kt-R51 K-B2; 34. P-KKt4, R-K1; 35. R-B1 does not hold out for long. (But if 34. K-K1, R-K7; 35. R-B2, RxR wins a Pawn.) \par \par 32. B-B1 | 33. R-K1 | RxR ch. | 34. QxR | K-B2 \par 35. Q-R5 | BxP | 36. Q-B7 ch. | K-Kt3 | 37. QxKtP | BxP \par 38. QxRP | Q-K3\par \par Black has much the better of it because of his control of the board. Of course, not 38. ... BxP; 39. Q-Q3 ch. Yerhoff still puts up a vigorous resistance. \par \par 39. P-KR3 | P-R4 | 40. Q-R5 | Q-B1 \par \par Excellent restraint! A Pawn can mean so much in almost any ending. But 40. ... BxP; 41. Q-D3, B-B5; 42. Q-B2 ch. gives counter-chances. \par \par 41. K-Kt1 | B-Q6 | 41. ... BxP looks quite playable, but other fields look greener to Steiner. \par 42. Q-R8 | 43. Q-Q8 | 44. Kt-R1 | 45. Q-R4 | 46. Kt-B2 | 47. Kt-Q3\par Q-K3 | Q-K4 | K-R2 | B-Kt1 | QxP | Q-Kt8 ch.\par \par Of course, not 47. ... BxKt; 48. QxP ch. with perpetual check. Steiner continues to play for positional factors instead of grubbing more Pawns. Besides, he lays a neat little trap to terminate the game. \par \par 48. Kt-K1 | 49. K-R2 | 50. P-KKt4 | 51. K-Kt1 | 52. QxP ch. Resigns\par O-O8 | B-K5 | O-Q7 ch. | P-Kt4 | K-Kt2\par \par If 53. K-B1, B-Kt3 wins the Queen. A hard-fought, difficult, and well-played game. \par \par ## ANOTHER TRANSCONTINENTAL TOUR\par \par by GEORGE KOLTANOWSKI\par \par Simultaneous and Blindfolded Chess Expert\par \par Under the auspices of the UNITED STATES CHESS FEDERATION\par \par Simultaneous or Blindfolded Exhibitions, Lectures on Chess\par Anyone winning will receive a year's membership to the USCF and anyone drawing a copy of the Yearbook. Tour will start October 1st, 1946 and clubs are advised to book an evening as early as possible. Posters and publicity models furnished upon request. Write for arrangements to:\par \par GEORGE KOLTANOWSKI\par Hotel Charles Gurney\par Yankton, South Dakota \par \par ## NEW TOUR IS PLANNED BY KOLTANOWSKI\par \par George Koltanowski, blindfold expert, plans a continental tour following the Pan-American Tournament at Yankton, So. Dak. where he will serve as Tournament Director. Plans for the tour, which will start October 1st, include simultaneous and blindfold exhibitions together with lectures on chess. Last season Koltanowski played in over one hundred chess clubs throughout the country, and expects to better that record in the coming tour. \par \par ## U.S. GRAND NATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE CHESS TOURNAMENT\par \par Opens October 1, 1946\par \par Entrants are enrolled in sections of 7 to 9 players with prize awards to the winners of each section. Finalists compete for state and regional titles. \par \par **OPEN TO ALL CHESS PLAYERS IN THE U.S.**\par **ENTRY $1** \par Make checks payable to M. O. Meyer\par Send to J. W. JENKINS\par 723 S. Main St.\par Newark, New Jersey\par \par Endorsed by the UNITED STATES CHESS FEDERATION \par \par ## CHESS LIFE\par \par **Page 3**\par **Thursday, September 6, 1946**\par \par The time chosen for the appearance of CHESS LIFE is peculiarly auspicious. In point of continuous activities of national importance the year of 1946 is likely to be a full one. To be fully apprised of this scene merely glance at the current magazines printed on this continent, and the many useful club organs carrying "matter" for which space cannot be found in the larger publications. Perhaps the under view of the national scene, so far as country is to be had, is through a perusal of the monthly letters so painstakingly prepared and by the energetic and far-seeing President of the United States Chess Federation, Elbert A. Wagner, Jr. of Chicago. \par \par I have been glad to avail myself frequently of the contents of these informative documents and it is good to know that they will now have a still wider circulation through a channel going direct to the entire membership. With a newspaper of its own, the other "official organs" of the USCF would be superfluous, and the AMERICAN CHESS BULLETIN will cease to issue as such. \par \par It goes without saying that the friendly and helpful cooperation, hitherto existing, will be continued for the benefit of the Federation and chess in general. Therefore, it is with real pleasure that I extend the hand of fellowship to Mr. Montgomery Major, the editor of CHESS LIFE, at the same time congratulating the Federation upon the acquisition of an executive of proved ability. I feel sure that under his trained guidance, the new venture is bound to succeed. \par \par HERMAN N. HELMS,\par Publisher, AMERICAN CHESS BULLETIN,\par New York, N.Y. \par }